1. "Problem Statement"


1.a "Functional Requirements"

(An inventory of program features.)


1.b "Non-Functional Requirements"

(An inventory of non-feature program characteristics, stylistic choices, etc.)


1.c "Contraints"

(To be duplicated verbatim from assignment text.)



2. "Project Management Plan"


2.a "Project Deliverables"

(An inventory of what information is to be made available at the time of delivery)



3. "Requirements"


3.a "User Interaction"

(An inventory of what changes can be made to the program logic at run time and which facilities are used to effect such changes)


3.b "Preliminary Scenarios"

(Various examples of changes in program behavior due to changes made to the run time logic.)


3.c "Use Cases"

(A set of classifications dividing the run time logic into broad behavior types. Does not cover error conditions. Includes charts and diagrams.)



4. "Analysis"


4.a "General Considerations"

(An inventory of compile time classes known to be needed for technical reasons.)


4.b "Abbot Analysis"

(A list of abstract terms that correlate to specific compile time classes. This list is non-exhastive.)


4.c "Class Diagram"

(A UML-style diagram charting the relationships between the classes that appear in 4.b, and prtially inventorying their members. Does not exhaustively document either property.)


4.d "Dynamic Model"

(A set of lifetime diagrams illustrating which classes of functions are called at which points during the case lifetime.)


4.e "View of Participating Classes"

(This view consists of a UML-style diagram charting the relationships between the classes that appear in 4.b, and fully inventorying their members. Does not exhaustively document either property.)


4.f "Analysis Level Package Diagram"

(This diagram is a UML-style illustration of the compile time divisions seperating groups of classes)



5. "System Design"


5.a "Design Goals"

(An inventory of planned compile time and run time features, and notes on the viability of implementing each feature.)


5.b "Trade Offs"

(An inventory of features that were omitted to facilitate the inclusion of other features.)

